README.md, before:

# Football AI Predictor

An AI-powered tool that predicts offensive play calls in real-time using Machine Learning. Designed to help High School coaches make decision based off of data on the sideline.

## The Mission
At the high school level, 85% of play-calling is based on gut instinct. This project aims to give analytics to underfunded teams by providing NFL-level insights using a simple, offline program.

## How It Works
The system uses **Random Forest Classifiers** trained on thousands of NCAA play-by-play data points to predict:
1.  **Play Type** (Run vs. Pass)
2.  **Cover Scheme** (Defensive Recommendation)
3.  **Play Direction** (Left/Right/Middle)

### Key Features
-   **Real-Time Prediction**: Enter Down, Distance, and Formation to get instant probabilities.
-   **Opponent Specific**: The AI can be trained on a specific opponent's history (For example, Army) to learn their unique tendencies (The accuracy relies on the amount of data you have on the team)
-   **Defensive Coverage**: Suggests the "best" defensive coverage based on expected play.

## Usage
1.  **Install Requirements**
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2.  **Run the Web Interface**
    ```bash
    streamlit run app.py
    ```
    or if that doesn't work
    ```bash
    python -m streamlit run app.py
    ```
4.  **Train a Custom Model**
    -   Go to the "Data Manager" tab.
    -   Select an opponent (For example, Army).
    -   Click Train Model.

## Accuracy & Performance
-   **Generic Model**: ~66% Accuracy (With all NCAA teams).
-   **Specialized Model**: Up to **91% Accuracy** when trained on teams that have consistent/rigid offenses (For example, Triple Option offenses).

## Technology Used
-   **Python 3.10+**
-   **Scikit-Learn** (Machine Learning)
-   **Pandas** (Data Processing)
-   **Streamlit** (UI)
## Extras
-   The large dataset I used was too big to upload to GitHub
-   This was made for own school's football team
-   All data came from https://collegefootballdata.com/

---
*Created by Pradhyot Kore and Kaushal Rao

Commit message:

Revise README with new usage steps and remove old content
Updated usage instructions and removed outdated sections.

README.md, after:

## Usage
1.  Click on code, then download zip
2.  Extract the zip file
3.  Click until you open the folder with six files
4.  Click on the path (Next to the Search button in File Explorer)
5.  Type cmd
6.  **Install Requirements**
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

7.  **Run the Web Interface**
    ```bash
    streamlit run app.py
    ```
    or if that doesn't work
    ```bash
    python -m streamlit run app.py
    ```
8.  **Train a Custom Model**
    -   Go to the "Data Manager" tab.
    -   Select an opponent (For example, Army).
    -   Click Train Model.

## Accuracy & Performance
-   **Generic Model**: ~66% Accuracy (With all NCAA teams).
-   **Specialized Model**: Up to 91% Accuracy when trained on teams that have consistent/rigid offenses (For example, Triple Option offenses).

## Technology Used
-   **Python 3.10+**
-   **Scikit-Learn** (Machine Learning)
-   **Pandas** (Data Processing)
-   **Streamlit** (UI)
## Extras
-   The large dataset I used was too big to upload to GitHub
-   This was made for own school's football team
-   All data came from https://collegefootballdata.com/

---
*Created by Pradhyot Kore and Kaushal Rao
